README.md, before:

<p align="center">
   <img height="200" style="height:200px;" src="https://github.com/jeroenptrs/denoFn/raw/main/.github/denofn.png" alt="Deno as a Function" />
   <h1 align="center">denoFn</h1>
</p>
<p align="center">Self hosted FaaS provider, made with Deno and Docker.</p>
<p align="center">
   <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/jeroenptrs/denoFn?label=latest" />
</p>

---

## Preface

Combining a love for Typescript and all things serverless, denoFn started as a little project to also get reaquainted with Deno and Docker.
It's currently running stable locally on UNIX development machines and on a Digitalocean droplet+volume.

Take a look at the [Todos](#todos) for what's next for denoFn.

## Local development/contribution

### Prerequisites

- Docker (and docker-compose)
- Deno v1.1.1 and above
- VSCode will prompt you to install specific extensions, it is advised to at least install the Deno extension

_NOTE: further instructions are written towards UNIX systems since .sh scripts are used. But this probably all works on Windows as well._

### Testing inside Docker

`./denofn.sh` takes various commands, depending on what you want to do:

- `build` uses docker-compose to build all docker images
- `up <PATH>` creates volumes at selected path and docker-compose up
- `down` docker-compose down + removes volumes
- `update` down + build + up
- `log` docker-compose logs
- `clear <PATH>` clears registry folder at selected path
- `cache <reload|update>`
  - `reload` will fetch all dependencies on your local machine, using the lock.json. Kind of like `npm install/yarn`
  - `update` will fetch updates and new dependencies and add them to lock.json. Kind of like `npm install <packages>/yarn add <packages>`

### Contributing new deps

- Non versioned dependencies will not be allowed
- run `./denofn.sh cache update` for opening a PR

## Function layout

- [folder] scriptName
  - index.ts
  - registry.json
  - ... other code

This will map in `registry` to

- scriptName.js
- scriptName.json

### index.ts

```ts
import { createHandler } from "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/jeroenptrs/denofn@1.0.0-rc.1/packages/micro/mod.ts";

export default createHandler((_) => "Hello, world");
```

`createHandler` gives you a Request object and requires a string or Response object. See typings in `src/micro/mod.ts`.

### registry.json

```json
{
  "whitelist": [],
  "warmupOnStart": true
}
```

- `whitelist`: all domains that are allowed for `--allow-net`
- `warmupOnStart`: will bootstrap your function immediately upon docker initialization. This is still a bit flaky as there are race conditions with registration, will be fixed soon.

## Todos

1. [ ] extract orchestration layer to separate module
   1. [ ] try toAsyncIterator for spawning deno processes
   1. [ ] spawning and killing shouldn't exist "inside" execution layer
   1. [ ] potentially extract into separate dockerfile as well
1. [ ] Allow serving static files (map asset name to filename?)
1. [ ] Properly defer warmup pings when file isn't registered yet
1. [ ] Persistent logs
1. [ ] Registry UI
   1. [ ] Upload files
   1. [ ] Change permissions
   1. [ ] Remove registration via mounted volume
   1. [ ] Refresh code
1. [ ] Monitoring dashboard UI
1. [ ] Lib improvements
   1. [ ] Opine is quite messy in implementation (see registerScriptHandler.ts)
   1. [ ] Publish script for packages (versioned release)
      - All packages on tag denofn@1.0.0 will have its sibling packages as denofn@1.0.0 in their respective deps.ts file
      - When performing new development, the same script should reset these dependencies to @main/feature-branch or PWD as target
   1. [ ] Testing

Commit message:

chore: add external logging example

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
   <img height="200" style="height:200px;" src="https://github.com/jeroenptrs/denoFn/raw/main/.github/denofn.png" alt="Deno as a Function" />
   <h1 align="center">denoFn</h1>
</p>
<p align="center">Self hosted FaaS provider, made with Deno and Docker.</p>
<p align="center">
   <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/jeroenptrs/denoFn?label=latest" />
</p>

---

## Preface

Combining a love for Typescript and all things serverless, denoFn started as a little project to also get reaquainted with Deno and Docker.
It's currently running stable locally on UNIX development machines and on a Digitalocean droplet+volume.

Take a look at the [Todos](#todos) for what's next for denoFn.

## Local development/contributing

### Prerequisites

- Docker (and docker-compose)
- Deno v1.1.1 and above
- VSCode will prompt you to install specific extensions, it is advised to at least install the Deno extension

_NOTE: further instructions are written towards UNIX systems since .sh scripts are used. But this probably all works on Windows as well._

### Testing inside Docker

`./denofn.sh` takes various commands, depending on what you want to do:

- `build` uses docker-compose to build all docker images
- `up <PATH>` creates volumes at selected path and docker-compose up
- `down` docker-compose down + removes volumes
- `update` down + build + up
- `log` docker-compose logs
- `clear <PATH>` clears registry folder at selected path
- `cache <reload|update>`
  - `reload` will fetch all dependencies on your local machine, using the lock.json. Kind of like `npm install/yarn`
  - `update` will fetch updates and new dependencies and add them to lock.json. Kind of like `npm install <packages>/yarn add <packages>`

### Contributing new deps

- Non versioned dependencies will not be allowed
- run `./denofn.sh cache update` for opening a PR

## Function layout

- [folder] scriptName
  - index.ts
  - registry.json
  - ... other code

This will map in `registry` to

- scriptName.js
- scriptName.json

### index.ts

```ts
import { createHandler } from "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/jeroenptrs/denofn@1.0.0-rc.1/packages/micro/mod.ts";

export default createHandler((_) => "Hello, world");
```

`createHandler` gives you a Request object and requires a string or Response object. See typings in `src/micro/mod.ts`.

### registry.json

```json
{
  "whitelist": [],
  "warmupOnStart": true
}
```

- `whitelist`: all domains that are allowed for `--allow-net`
- `warmupOnStart`: will bootstrap your function immediately upon docker initialization. This is still a bit flaky as there are race conditions with registration, will be fixed soon.

## Logging to papertrail

Uncomment the logging section in `docker-compose.yml` and add your own logging URL.

## Todos

1. [ ] extract orchestration layer to separate module
   1. [ ] try toAsyncIterator for spawning deno processes
   1. [ ] spawning and killing shouldn't exist "inside" execution layer
   1. [ ] potentially extract into separate dockerfile as well
1. [ ] Allow serving static files (map asset name to filename?)
1. [ ] Properly defer warmup pings when file isn't registered yet
1. [ ] Registry UI
   1. [ ] Upload files
   1. [ ] Change permissions
   1. [ ] Remove registration via mounted volume
   1. [ ] Refresh code
1. [ ] Monitoring dashboard UI
1. [ ] Lib improvements
   1. [ ] Opine is quite messy in implementation (see registerScriptHandler.ts)
   1. [ ] Publish script for packages (versioned release)
      - All packages on tag denofn@1.0.0 will have its sibling packages as denofn@1.0.0 in their respective deps.ts file
      - When performing new development, the same script should reset these dependencies to @main/feature-branch or PWD as target
   1. [ ] Testing
